[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
I'm Carolyn Craft, and welcome
to "A World of Wisdom."
My guests today
are an inspiration.
They are living their
passion as their work.
Together, for over 25 years--
they are in their 26th year
now--
they have co-produced
"New Dimensions"
syndicated radio talk show.
It is heard in over 300 markets.
And they have now shared their
experience of working together
in passion in a new book
entitled "True Work:
The Sacred Dimension
of Earning a Living."
And as I said earlier,
this book will touch--
is touching lives in a way
that brings passion to our work
and healing to our
spiritual-- sometimes
our spiritual blockage.
We are learning how to be more
passionate about what we do,
and more creative.
My pleasure to welcome
Michael and Justine Toms.
Thank you.
>> Thank you very much, Carolyn.
>> Thanks, Carolyn.
>> Nice to be here.
>> I thought we might begin
this time together with a little
idea of why people
are dissatisfied,
where have we come from, and
where are we seeking to go
in the workplace.
It's changing a
great deal out there.
>> Well, I think, Carolyn,
that people are really hungry
for more meaning and
purpose in their lives,
and especially in their work.
As we continue to
pursue this bottom line,
business-as-usual
mentality around work,
something essential
is being trampled.
And it's that
something essential
that we've written
about in "True Work."
It's a deep longing
that each of us
has to bring our
gifts to the world,
to make our contribution,
to serve others.
Everyone has a longing
to want to do something,
and to give the gift that
each of us has uniquely.
All of us are originals.
Each one of us is original.
There's only one Carolyn Craft.
There's only one Justine Toms.
There's only one.
And because of that, we're
here to give who we are
and what we are.
And so it's very important
to follow that longing
and have it lead us where
it wants to lead us.
>> I had the thought,
too, of letting go of mom
and dad's and grandmom and
granddad's expectations,
as well.
That it's not about 40
years in one place anymore.
>> Well, it truly has
changed, hasn't it?
People change jobs now.
There is no job security
as once was touted,
that everything--
with downsizing
now, with the workplace changing
so much, new kinds of work
is coming up.
There are all sorts of
new professions now.
And so that's a good side of it.
We've noticed in
people that we've
talked to who have
been downsized,
who are no longer
working, they've
found that this is a very
special time for them,
that now they get
to choose again.
I mean, they might not
have had quite the gumption
or the courage to kind
of leap out there,
yet they may have wanted to.
And now, what?
The worst has happened.
Here they are.
They're out there
on their own again.
And many of them are looking
at that in such a way as
to choose again, and choose it
the way they really want it.
To choose what has
meaning for them,
to choose from their
own sense of values.
>> You had, Michael--
I know it's written about in the
very beginning of "True Work"--
an experience at
a very early age.
It seems to me, in reading
the book, that I personally
felt touched in that it
affirmed my life and the changes
that I've made.
You can see the tapestry
interwoven through--
your whole life counts
in what you do today.
And you had an early
experience that
shaped what you are doing now.
>> Well, I think the experience
you're talking about is when I
was five years old.
>> Yeah.
>> I was with my grandfather,
who I called Pop.
He called me Gus.
And I love my grandfather.
He was one of my mentors
and one of my teachers.
I was five, and I had
gotten up with him
to help him make his
breakfast and to make lunch--
to pack his lunch for
going off to work.
He was a plate
printer at the Bureau
of Engraving and
Printing, where they make
paper money in Washington, DC.
And I remember that he--
in this particular morning, he
bumped his head on a cabinet
above the sink, and he
was complaining, virulent.
Also complaining about
having to go to work.
And I remember hearing him just
be vociferous and very out loud
about his reluctance
to go to work.
And it was clear that
he didn't like the idea.
And I remember thinking at the
time that whenever I have to go
to work at some
point in my life,
that I would want it to be work
that I didn't feel badly about,
that it would be work that
I would want to go to.
And so that was
the seed, I think,
that got planted at an
early age in my life,
that whatever work I did,
I wanted to enjoy it.
And I would not take work
that I did not enjoy or didn't
get pleasure from.
>> And sometimes
following our passion,
really listening to
that inner voice,
means we're going to have
maybe not the cooperation
of everybody around us.
>> That's true.
I know when I quit the
corporation I've been with
for eight years in my late 20s,
neither of my grandparents--
my grandmother, who worked for
the telephone company for 45
years, and my grandfather,
who worked for the Bureau
of Engraving or Printing for
the same amount of 45 years--
they had no
understanding whatsoever
of what I was doing
in the sense of--
it was like I was giving
up a career, to them.
To them, I was
giving up security.
>> You were nuts.
You were crazy.
>> Exactly.
And they didn't understand it.
They couldn't understand it.
In their world view,
there was no way
for them to understand
what I was doing--
to have room to understand.
It wasn't that
they loved me less.
And they were well-intentioned.
They cared about me.
But they couldn't understand.
So if I needed their
approval, I wouldn't have--
I couldn't have done it.
If I needed their approval--
waited for their approval,
I'd have never gotten it.
So it didn't matter to me
whether they approved of it
or not.
I knew inside myself that
that's what I had to do.
And--
>> Sometimes we don't--
I mean, if there's
the slightest doubt,
it only takes that one person
to say something like that,
and we go back.
>> Yes, that's true.
>> That's true.
>> And remember, too, that we're
talking about two distinct ways
of knowing, here.
We're talking about the knowing
that comes from the mind-brain,
the brain, which is part of
the encapsulated ego self,
and then there's the intuitive
knowing, which really,
I think--
it's part of the
brain, but it's also
part of a larger intelligence.
And it's tapping into
that other intelligence.
>> Or perhaps it
can go from either.
>> It's not either/or.
It's not that we throw
away the rational
or throw away the brain, it's
that we use both of them.
And in this case,
where we're really
looking to follow our longing,
it's hearing that deeper voice.
And we don't hear that
through the brain,
we hear that through
our intuitive channels.
>> I kind of think of it as
hearing it through the heart.
And you need to be a little
more quiet in your life.
You need to be a
little more reflective.
You maybe need to listen to
your dreams a little more.
You maybe need to take
some time out and just
sit in your garden,
or sit on a park bench
somewhere, and just let
that voice come to you.
It's like you offer it a
place, like a hostess would
set a dinner table.
You set a dinner
table for that voice.
Be host to your own inner voice.
Invite it in.
>> With respect to that you said
what's important is to listen
to the call, no
matter how distant.
And it seems that sometimes
that's the step that we miss.
We haven't heard it unless
we've taken the time
to really evaluate--
it's that important
that we listen.
Well, sometimes, if we don't
listen, and we don't listen,
and we don't listen, then the
voice can get so loud that it--
>> We may get fired.
>> Well, besides getting--
with something drastic,
or we get sick, and we then
we really have to listen
because we're can't even
move, we're not feeling well.
So we've heard plenty
of stories in that way.
So we'd like to encourage people
to go ahead and listen now
to the small, quiet
voice before it's
having to shout in our
ears because we're really
unhappy with where we are.
>> It's quite a creative task,
too, to really go in and--
I think you were saying earlier,
Michael, to listen to the point
that you do depend
on the inner--
and develop the inner strength,
even through the wilderness
experience, and not just
look at what's external.
>> You know, Carolyn, it's
like, we can find that happiness
wherever we are, too.
We're not suggesting that
somebody has to quit their job.
I mean, there can be meaning
in so much of what we do.
And so it's a matter of looking
at where we are in finding ways
to work even better
where we are,
to find relationships that work.
Maybe there's that--
we'd really like our work
except for that one
person that really
bugs us, that just
comes in all a grump,
and they never
acknowledge our work.
Maybe they're our
supervisor, and you just
think that you'll never
get along with that person.
Well, what we
suggest that one does
is to think about that
person-- when that person was
a little tiny baby.
Think about that person,
when that person was
so small that it was just there
in joy and love and innocence.
And the eyes never
change, not really.
Maybe around the eyes, you
maybe get wrinkled and all sorts
of things.
But the eyes, they never change.
They look just like they
looked when we were babies.
So just remember every day
to look at that person,
and look in their eyes, and
when you say good morning,
you're saying good morning
to that sweet innocence that
hasn't been overlaid by
all of their problems,
and all of their
disappointments.
>> This is what you're
talking about in "True Work"
when you talk about transforming
a toxic or a negative
situation, or negative
thoughts that you're taking
to the workplace.
>> Exactly.
And that will have-- that will
make a difference, to start
to feel it within yourself.
I don't mean to put it on.
That's why we're saying,
something that's so deep
is to find a truth and a beauty
in that person before you--
truly.
And then it transforms the
energy of the whole situation.
No, it may not change them, but
it will certainly change us.
>> And you're seeing
this change, I think,
in your workshops.
You're doing workshops
across the country,
and you're seeing people
step out and change.
When we come back, I want you
to talk about the True Work
Circles that you're
establishing and can
help people establish
in their own environment
and their own community.
You're watching "A
World of Wisdom."
I'm speaking with
Michael and Justine Toms,
the authors of "True Work."
Stay tuned.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm so glad you've joined us.
We are talking
about our true work,
and having passion
in the workplace
and in our chosen
path, and also learning
how to transform a
situation that might not be
as fulfilling as we would want.
Something you do with your
workshops around the country
is help people put together
a True Work Circle.
Tell us a little bit about them.
>> Well, you know, Carolyn, we
feel that it's really important
to have people who support
us in our fullness,
and support our potential, and
support the passion that we
want, the dream that
we want to manifest.
So we call it
surrounding ourselves
with people of the heart,
people who will support us.
And when we do this,
it's to get together
with five to eight people
on a regular basis.
So invite friends, and put it
in your schedule, and meet,
let's say, once a
week for an evening.
And this is a place--
a sacred time outside
of the rest of our lives,
where we speak from our hearts
and we listen from our hearts.
And it's very important that
we don't bring in judgments.
We're not there
to fix each other,
but we're there to truly
listen and hear each other,
and to speak our truth.
And when you're truly
listened to in that way,
you might find yourself saying
new things, maybe things
that you've never said before,
because it's a safe environment
in which to do that.
So we say it's good
to meet regularly.
>> And the purpose of this
is to support one another
in your passion for whatever it
is that you're spending so much
time--
>> That, and also to provide a
space to release and to voice
some of the concerns that
one may have in a difficult
or toxic work situation.
Often, it's not possible
to voice those concerns
in the workplace itself
because of the circumstances,
but you have to voice them.
You have to have a
place to voice them,
because if you don't,
if you repress them,
then they're going to
come out in other ways.
They're going to come
around and bite you.
And it may affect your
health, physical, emotional,
scriptural.
It can have any number
of repercussions
if you don't address them, and
look at them, and voice them.
So that's another
reason why it's
important to have
a circle of friends
of the heart who can reflect
to you what's going on,
what's happening.
>> I have a story
to tell about that.
In one of my True Work Circles--
it was a women's circle.
And one of the
women in the circle,
she came, and she was
speaking about her work.
Now, she liked her work very
much, but it was getting to--
we asked a question
in our workshops,
are you finding yourself in your
work or are you losing yourself
in your work?
Well, she was finding she was
losing herself in her work.
Even though it was
good work, it was--
>> Consuming her.
>> --just taking over her life.
And in doing that,
she was saying
that she was going to have
to turn in her resignation.
So we all listened
deeply to her,
and we all encouraged
her, in a way,
to do what felt right in her
heart to do, whatever that was.
Well, the next time
we came to the circle,
she said, well, guess what?
She had turned in
her resignation.
She wasn't going
to just leave them,
she said that she would
spend six months training
another person.
But there was other passions
that she wanted to pursue.
Well, they loved her so
much, and loved the work
that she did so much, they said,
oh, please, please stay on.
What we'll do is that, well,
you can work less time,
and we'll give you more money,
and give you an assistant.
>> [LAUGHING] You know,
there's a quote that I keep
on my computer.
"Love flows the moment
you tell your truth."
And that's what it sounds like,
that when you finally say,
this is my limit, and you have
your protest, or your boundary,
or you go to the inner resource,
you find that things start--
the universe
cooperates so quickly.
>> And isn't is amazing how
long we can resist telling
our truth?
>> Oh, yes.
>> So we can sit on
it for a long time.
>> So in a True Work Circle,
you get to practice telling
your truth in a very
safe environment,
where you're not going to be
jumped on right away, or--
it really is a wonderful way to
practice our telling our truth.
>> One of the things-- when we
first started New Dimensions,
one of the things that I did
was identify the whole group
of people, various people
in different fields,
who were the kind of-- who were
the people that we wanted to be
engaged with in New Dimensions,
New Dimensions being a vehicle
in the original vision, a
vehicle that would present
a lot of the new ideas
that were emerging,
and present them in a way
that people could hear them.
So that it wasn't being
presented in the context of,
this is the way, the
truth, and the light,
and this is what you should do.
But rather, here's another
way of seeing the world.
Here's another way.
So New Dimensions,
what it's about
is expanding the landscape,
enlarging the lens
through which we see the world.
So I went around and met--
and made appointments
with these various people,
and went and talked to
them, and shared with them
what the vision of New
Dimensions was with the idea
that, if it was not a good
idea, they would tell me.
They would say, oh,
it's not going to--
I don't think you can do
that, for whatever reason.
Or if it was a good idea,
they would support me.
And I have to say that
every one of those people
I talked to, in my
experience, they
all gave me very
positive feedback, very
positive support.
So that led me to the next step
that, OK, this is a good idea.
This is an idea
that's got some merit.
So I'll proceed
ahead and go forward.
So it was important for me to
gather that support initially,
because it gave
me the strength--
just, it would
confirm my own vision,
confirm the vision that we had
and it also gave us energy.
>> We're powerful beings, too.
We can find those that
are going to support us,
and we can find those
that will kvetch with us.
>> So six of those people
volunteered their services
to do a lecture series for us.
We didn't have to
pay them a fee.
They came and gave us
their time and energy free.
And that came out
of the relationship.
It came out of the00 and then
out of that lecture series,
we got the invitation
to do a radio program.
Because we didn't initially
think we were going to-- we
didn't have radio in mind,
but that produced the radio.
>> How important is intent?
You know, you talked
about that extensively.
>> Yes.
>> So explain a little
bit about what intent--
where's it coming from?
>> Intention is directly
connected to spirit.
Spirit and intention
are connected.
And so spirit drives intention,
and consciousness is the agent
for manifesting intention.
So intention is the
vision, it's the dream.
It's the overarching
vision that we hold
for what it is we want to do.
And that vision may
be-- in our case,
it was, a few years ago,
a 24-hour life-enhancing
programming service.
Well, now, in conjunction
with Wisdom Radio and Wisdom
Channel, we're
doing that together.
We've got programming.
The Wisdom Network has the
facilities and resources.
So that vision is manifesting.
So that's an overall,
overarching vision.
Now, within that,
to manifest a vision
requires lots of little
decisions, lots of details--
attention to detail, lots of
things that have to be done.
Often, what happens, that
people carry a vision
and they want it to
happen right now.
Because you can see it, you see?
You can see it in your
mind's eye, and it's like,
let's make it happen.
And we live in a society that
we want it, and we want it now.
Well, with vision, it
doesn't work that way.
What it requires is energy and
commitment and persistence.
And it's out of our
giving our energy
that the vision can manifest.
There's lots of details
to be dealt with.
Not all of those
details are going
to be pleasant and enjoyable,
but they have to be done.
It's like the phrase,
God lives in the details.
And what is meant by that
phrase is giving our fullness
to everything, no matter
how small or insignificant
it may appear to be.
It's important to give
our fullness to it.
>> You talked about, also,
an experience when you were
a child, with the story about
"mother, may I," I think,
or "advance a
step," or something.
And you really
emphasized the importance
to take those baby steps, and
be diligent and consistent
in those baby steps.
And sometimes a baby step
is hearing that voice
that we just pause in that
moment to hear, don't we?
>> Well, it's so true, that--
I think that what
is important for us
is, when we have an overall
vision, it might seem very far
away and, oh, it's so big,
how will we ever get there?
Well, we get there by
taking one step at a time.
And these steps in that game
that we played as a child,
mother may I, they
were called baby steps.
And they are one step
connected to another.
One little step.
But you put those together,
and you are surely going
towards that dream manifesting.
So it's a matter of just keeping
at it, keeping up the momentum.
>> It seems, too--
it just occurred to
me that everything
that you have shared
in the book is almost
like a baby step in itself.
You gather the support,
you get in community
with your true work, you
have a daily practice
of continuing to vision.
You're mindful of who you
share your dream and vision
with so you do
have that support.
There are all kinds
of ways, aren't there?
>> Right.
And we want to
mention as to how to--
one of the ways to connect
with support for our True Work
Circles is to connect
through our website.
And you can do that through
www.newdimensions.org.
So people can plug
into that, and they
can catch our True Work Circle.
>> Right.
>> I want to thank you both
for joining us on "A World
of Wisdom."
And I know we'll see
you again and talk
about the true work that's
happening in the world,
and people living their passion.
Thanks so much
for being with us.
>> Thank you, Carolyn.
>> Our pleasure.
>> And thank you for joining
us on "A World of Wisdom."
Until next time.
We'll see you then.
[MUSIC PLAYING]